---
layout: posts/post
title: "Mastering the Power of C at 42 Lausanne: A Journey into Lower-Level Programming Languages"
date: 2023-06-27 00:00:00 +0000
categories: ["blog"]
tags: ["42-lausanne", "c-programming-2", "c-programming"]
post_image: "https://old.guillaumelauzier.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/generatedart_C_programming_language_binary_7a233a40-eea0-419a-a01a-d309cf46594e-2.png"
description: "C and C++ are powerful, efficient, and widely-used programming languages that have shaped the technological world we see today. They form the backbone of many systems, ranging from embedded systems an"
permalink: "/c-42-lausanne/"
---

C and C++ are powerful, efficient, and widely-used programming languages that have shaped the technological world we see today. They form the backbone of many systems, ranging from embedded systems and operating systems to browsers and games. Not only are they integral to the history of computer programming, but they are also continually shaping the present and future of technology.

## **Introduction to C and C++**

C is a procedural language developed at Bell Labs in the early 1970s. Its purpose was to make utilities run on the new Unix operating system. Given its origins and purpose, it's not surprising that C and Unix have influenced each other to such an extent that understanding C provides insight into Unix and vice versa.

On the other hand, C++ is an extension of the C programming language with additional features like classes and objects, making it an object-oriented language. It was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup in the 1980s with the idea of having a language that has the efficiency of C but provides high-level features.

## **When to Use C and C++**

C is generally used when speed and flexibility are paramount, such as in embedded systems or high-performance computing. It provides near-direct control over the system's hardware and memory, making it an excellent choice for system-level programming. For instance, operating systems, file systems, and network drivers are often written in C.

C++ expands upon C by adding object-oriented features, which can make programs easier to understand, design, and maintain. This makes C++ suitable for software infrastructure and resource-constrained applications, including desktop applications, servers, and performance-critical applications.

## **Where C and C++ Shine**

These languages are not for the faint-hearted or those who want quick results. They require a deep understanding of how computers work. They might not be the best fit for creating a website or a simple mobile application, but when it comes to building systems that require real-time performance, high computational efficiency, or specific hardware access, C and C++ are unparalleled.

Many hardware devices, from the tiniest microcontrollers to supercomputers, are powered by software written in C and C++. Moreover, their close-to-the-metal nature makes them suitable for graphics-intensive tasks like game development. Popular game engines like Unreal Engine rely heavily on C++ for core systems and high-performance parts.

## **Experience at [42 Lausanne](https://42lausanne.ch)**

My experience at [42 Lausanne](https://42lausanne.ch), a unique tuition-free, peer-to-peer IT school, helped me truly understand and appreciate the power of C and C++. The school's innovative "Piscine" (Pool) program immerses students in coding by offering a series of challenging exercises in C and Shell over a month-long period. Students not only solve these tasks but also evaluate others' solutions, fostering a collaborative learning environment.

The [42 Lausanne](https://42lausanne.ch)'s unique model of education, focusing on practical project-based learning, in stark contrast to conventional academic environments, provided a conducive environment for me to hone my C and C++ skills. The school's open-campus policy, round-the-clock operation, and exceptional IT infrastructure offered me the freedom to delve deep into the intricacies of these languages.

More than just coding, the [42 Lausanne](https://42lausanne.ch) experience taught me the power of peer learning, collaboration, and the ability to learn by doing. These invaluable experiences have been integral to my development as a professional and have imbued me with the skills to tackle future technological challenges.

**Conclusion**

C and C++ are here to stay. Despite the arrival of high-level languages, the need for direct control over hardware and high computational efficiency keeps them relevant. Schools like [42 Lausanne](https://42lausanne.ch) provide a platform for aspiring programmers to master these challenging languages and embark on
